I feel like you have to like adopt a creed, sign something in blood.
You have to like really sell your soul to the open source community.
Do you guys all just like look down on people like me?
Are you even aware that I exist?
So, Dax, how did you get into open source?
I actually, for me, it was right at the beginning of my career.
I was into programming in high school, maybe even in middle school.
So, I was doing it for a while.
Obviously, I sucked at that age.
Obviously.
I mean, if you suck now, then obviously you sucked at that age.
I was like me having a dig at you.
Okay.
Sorry to go.
Yeah.
This is a little reversal right here.
I'm kind of working, but I thought it was good because relative to everyone else in high
school, I was a lot better.
But in the broader sense, I really didn't know what I was doing.
But this cool game came out at the time called Minecraft.
And I remember one night, I was like, I've been hearing about this game for a very long
time.
Let me watch a YouTube video of it, and I watched a YouTube video of it for like six
hours.
It was just like a series just doing all this funny stuff in it, and I was just like so
engrossed.
And I didn't even sleep that night.
And then the next day, I was like, oh, it was really cool.
I can't wait to try it.
So then I set it up and I tried and this is pretty fun and I'm into the game.
But my, it's one of those things where it's a sandbox, so it kind of captured my imagination
a lot.
And I was like, oh, it would be so cool if like this had this other feature or like, you
know, if we are playing with a bunch of people, like I'd love to like have these scenarios
in it.
So I can kind of see what happens.
So around that time, there was a new effort in making an open source version of their
multiplayer server.
The reason they were doing this is so they could add plugin support.
So they like created a whole framework around like ways to hook into things that happened
in the game and people can make plugins for it.
And the goal was, you know, not to literally make the plugins, it was to make it a thing
that people can contribute to.
So I found that and I was really interesting.
So I started to make my own plugins, I was really into creating like realistic economic
scenarios and the servers that I ran to see like what kind of emergent stuff would happen.
All kind of like crazy, funny things happen.
It's like a whole other story, like there were people that effectively like created like
mafias that like shook down people and like, you know, they like got all the money and
it was pretty sophisticated.
So I was really into like creating plugins that like enabled that kind of thing.
But then I started working on the server itself and I think my intro into that world,
the way it happened is actually exactly what I think of when I say people gained open
source.
It might be different from your experience, but I think it's a cool way to do it.
Like I said, in the beginning, I did not know much like I wasn't an experienced programmer.
I wasn't someone that was like going to come in and just do all this cool stuff.
What I did was it was back in the IRC days, I just hung out in the IRC channel like to
an insane degree, like I was on there for hours, just taking part in every single conversation
whenever someone was stuck, I would like try to Google it for them, try like look up things
and help them.
And I swear in the course of like one to two months of me doing that, I got like years
of experience just from one, like being the person that has to like figure stuff out,
like that just makes it so you understand all these things, you pick up on all these things.
Being around other people that like really knew what they were doing and listen to their
arguments and like how how they should do things and of course eventually contributing
back as well.
But that was kind of the end of that process, like my entry into open source wasn't really
I'm going to go contribute a bunch of code.
It was doing this other stuff in the community that just kind of I feel like looking back,
I feel like that like put me further ahead of my career like by years.
I just wouldn't have gotten that education that experience in it in any other way.
Yeah, so I wanted to just let you keep going and like share all that very helpful information
for our audience because I'm sure they'll get a lot out of it.
But the whole time I was just thinking how much I hate you, like I thought you were millennial
like me, like I thought you were a late bloomer, like I've accomplished nothing until I was
like 25 years old, don't even think I started writing code until I was 20 something.
And I thought you were like me, I thought you're a millennial, but you were like, you're like
the Gen Z people now who have done everything since they were like 12.
I didn't realize that about you.
I didn't know that.
It's just fun to be more on the other side being like these kids like what they're so
crazy.
Yeah, you made fun of that with me, like how accomplished some of these 16 year olds are.
Yeah, I mean, to be fair, they like I do see a lot of people that, you know, I think everyone
knows who we're talking about.
It's one of the people that are in our world.
And I think they, I mean, I'm like thinking back to what I was doing.
And I was like, I don't think I'm, of course, I've gotten to stuff early, but I still feel
like they're all like definitely way more skilled than I was at that age.
And I think a lot of that is just like that thing that I was doing, like getting exposure
to other people and them kind of teaching me.
I think I was doing that like right at the beginning of that becoming a thing.
And now it's like kind of super charged.
There's like discord exists now and there's like Sony ways to get plugged in so many resources.
So I think they're all kind of doing the same thing that I did.
But like just the outcome and the impact is like the 10x more now.
Yeah.
It's cool to think about how that all compounds like each generation should have like earlier
and earlier successes and just people who are able to leverage all this stuff fully.
Yeah.
It's interesting the game thing.
So I just finished reading a Masters of Doom.
Oh, nice.
And anytime I read a book, I have to find a way to interject that into a conversation.
And you said something about games and open source.
And in that book, John Carmack talks about how they made Doom, like very extensible and
all of the stuff he did with those early games, Quake and Doom and all those.
It was like a big part of it was open source and he's like a big, like everything should
be open source person.
Do you feel that way?
Do you feel like everything should be open source and anything that's not as evil?
I definitely feel like a lot more stuff should be open source and I don't feel, but I mean,
I don't think it's because it's evil.
I think it's just like I was talking about this with my wife yesterday.
My experience of literal code is it is the output of a lot of thinking and experience
and effort and energy and like things coming together.
The code itself is rarely something that I'm like, the code is what has the value.
It was just all the stuff that went into like deciding to even create it in that way or
the thing where we decided to focus on.
That's what has a value.
So for me, I rarely feel hesitant to open source anything, even like something that has no benefit,
like no business benefit of being open source.
Like I'm down to open source, just so it's a thing that I can point to if someone asks
me, oh, how do you do this thing, I can say, here's I'm doing it in my app.
I think way more companies can do that.
I don't think the code itself is something that has value, right?
It's there's always this like, oh, it's IP, it's intellectual property, but I just don't
see how someone just grabs that and like starts to compete with you.
It really feels like the thing that's hard to replicate are all the things that went
on behind the scenes to even get there and no one can like just feel that from you.
The code is just like the output of the labor.
But what about like elastic search and like AWS and like taking people's stuff and then
making a whole service on it?
Isn't that the counterpoint?
Well, you can always have a license around how you can use it.
And that's what elastic search eventually did.
They just not have the license in time.
Is that what the problem was like?
I'm actually was never clear on that.
I don't.
I actually don't even understand if I've always been curious about can you retroactively apply
a license or like people fork previous versions of it because it had a different license.
I'm not too sure, but if you look at things like we're actually because we're doing this
now for SSC, our like paid product is also open source.
So you fully open source everything.
You can self host it.
So you don't have to use it.
Use our hosted version.
You can do whatever you want, except we have a license and there that's going to say you
can't use it to build like a competing hosted product.
And we actually were just looking at post hug, which is they're further along, but they're
the same model where it's self-hostable, but they very make it, they very clearly state
like you can't like AWS can't go and offer like a managed post dog because there's only
one place in the world that can do that.
So I think licensing, I'm not against that.
I'm not too familiar with what happened with the last six search, but I think lights sink
and address those scenarios.
Interesting.
So do you think I have all kinds of questions that are not really where we're supposed to
be going with this episode?
So I'm going to shift into things I think we are supposed to talk about, which is getting
into open source.
I think like everyone should try and start to career that way.
Or if you're new to open source, you need to dive in, it'll benefit your career no matter
who you are.
I don't know.
So I think my main feeling is when I hear people say, how do I get into open source?
There's a few questions of like, well, what is your thinking behind this and begin like,
why are you even asking?
Should I get into open source?
Like what are your expectations?
Like what are your goals?
And also the answers that people get for that, I don't like always agree with.
So in terms of expectations and goals, it's I can kind of speak to like I said, for my
own path, it was purely to get to like supercharge my experience because open source communities
are very active.
If you work at a company, you might be interacting with like four or 500 engineers potentially
like maybe more, but day to day probably like around that whoever's on your close center
team and open source community potentially could be hundreds, could be thousands.
And like they're working on all different things and all different contexts and they
bring up things that you might have never seen before because your company doesn't even
touch that stuff.
So for me, it's primarily a learning option.
There's like a huge way to get involved in an interactive way with a community.
And that does it, you literally do not have to contribute any code, you can just hang out
where they hang out, absorb what they're talking about, answer questions.
That's like, to me, that's the first way to get involved.
And the second thing, I think a lot of advice people get is like, oh, like start to contribute
to PRs, but then it's like, well, to like what project?
So people start to like go look through GitHub and like pick random projects and try to like
solve PRs and like solve their bugs.
Sure, that has some value.
I don't think it has this type of thing where it's going to impact your career in this like
large compounding way.
So when people ask like, what projects do I want to get involved with?
And this is a part of a little tricky, right?
I look at this the exact same way as investing.
When you are an investor trying to invest in a company, you're looking to place your
resources, you know, your money with people that aren't huge yet, but you can see how
they could be huge.
Like what they're trying to do makes sense.
You like the people, you like connect with them in your core and you decide to invest
some of your resources there instead of somewhere else and you get an early and if they do well,
you're kind of uplifted as well.
I think open source is the exact same way.
You have to look at people pushing new projects that potentially have massive impact and try
to get involved early.
You're not always going to be right, like, and it's okay if you're not always right,
you're still going to get some experience as the project grows.
If you get involved with a project that's already very well established, you know, you
don't get that boost.
And a great example I have of this is I saw this happen with this all JS community.
I got in there pretty early, so I was able to kind of have a pretty impactful role there
as, you know, Ryan's reputation shut up as a reputation shut up.
There were people that got in there like way earlier than me.
And it was kind of arbitrary.
It wasn't like they were geniuses at how all these skills are ready.
They kind of just were into it and they were in there early.
And now as a project is more successful, they find themselves in these like massively influential
positions with a ton of opportunities.
So that to me is a kind of power open source.
It's kind of like, if you don't have money to invest in companies, you can invest your
time in these early stage projects and if you can place your bets and potentially, you
know, you can have some kind of outsized outcome just like investing.
Yeah.
You really look at it that way, I know you do because you, I feel like you're like an
open source investor at like you find projects early and you like pump them up now, you're
in a position now where you have some influence and you can like, you evaluate it and you're
like, these people are doing the right thing, they're, they're, this is an area that's impactful
and they're executing well.
I mean, I just think of drizzle.
I'm specifically thinking of drizzle.
You've done it with other stuff though, or you find things really early.
I don't, does everyone have that?
Can everyone do that?
Is that a unique skill of yours?
To the level that I'm doing it now is definitely like, it's, this is a, after years of being
involved in open source and, and DevTools in general, I'm able to do it to that degree.
But so like now I think what I'm getting more into is I don't really have the time to like
hang out in drizzle, just go all day, answer questions.
Like that's just not, like I'm at a different phase in my experience.
So my role has shifted, like I'm still looking for early like opportunities to get involved,
but now it's more like, okay, I see a project that checks a bunch of boxes.
It's filling a clear need.
The only reason it's not bigger is because it's just not marketed correctly.
So I'm like getting more into that now.
To me, this is like the later stage of it.
And you can think about and like, again, like going back to the investing thing.
It's kind of the same thing.
Like you, a lot of investors started out as founders because they didn't have a bunch
of money.
And they found a companies and those companies were successful and then they kind of shift
into being more investors where they can just kind of look at other things with potential
and like, you know, help blast it and make it bigger.
So I think I'm kind of like going through that phase, just like this is like the open
source version of it.
Even when you're small, like even as a founder, right, you're doing the same thing.
You're looking for opportunities that other people are ignoring that have potential.
I think getting involved in open source when you're early is similar and it is tricky,
right?
Because your judgment gets better with more experience.
So your early bets probably are going to suck.
But you know, it's just like these aren't like the, like the opportunity costs and stuff
aren't as in huge.
You spend a little bit of time every day and like, if it doesn't work out, you go to the
next one.
It's you eventually hit something.
Yeah.
So that was, I think that was my next question is like, what are the downsides here or what's
the risk?
If you invest heavily in something that doesn't go anywhere, is it better to like kind of
sprinkle yourself amongst multiple open source projects when you're early and you're trying
to find a place in a community and then find which one has more traction and double down?
Yeah.
It's funny because I think the parallels to founding and investing, they just keep continuing.
I always tell people stop trying to be like an angel investor in the beginning of your
career and like sprinkle money everywhere.
Just double down, triple down like on one thing, just give it your all.
The whole like diversification thing, that makes sense when you want like predictable
returns, not when you need to like have an outsized outcome so you can actually set yourself
up well.
So I don't think you sprinkle yourself through a bunch.
I think you like just think about what you're working on, thinking about problems, think
about a tool you use that you just love that other people aren't maybe using as much and
just get involved with their community.
It has to be like a big, big enough project, like a tiny package, it's a little utility
library of course, it's never going to ever grow big.
But I mean, if I think off the top of my head right now, I mean like drizzle is a great
example, right?
So they're starting, they're like definitely got a lot more traction in the past couple
of months, but they're still on the earlier end, like get in there, answer questions,
help them figure.
So there's still a lot to figure out there.
If you look at some front end frameworks, right, like again, solid is maybe a little bit ahead,
but there's always new front end frameworks coming out as always people doing like weird
things.
It's still time to get it on quick.
Jump in there people.
Exactly.
So it's okay if they don't, they're ultimately not like a react.
They will grow some amount in your time there.
And that's enough for you then to get the experience and judgment to go on, on to the
next thing.
You're getting something out of it.
Yeah, you're not.
It's not a complete loss.
Yeah.
And especially early on like it'll plateau over time, but early on it'll just be like literally
any project you get involved with, it's just going to like, you know, triple like your
skillset or experience.
And then yeah, the impact is so huge when it's early.
So I feel like I love open source.
Okay.
I love it.
It's enabled so many things in my career.
It's great.
But I don't feel like I'm a true open source person, I feel like you have to like adopt
a creed.
It's like sign something in blood that like you will never do another thing in software
that's not open source or something.
I don't know.
You have to like really sell your soul to the open source community.
I, I have used open source in sort of like a pragmatic way.
I've contributed in a very pragmatic way.
Like I, when I need something, I need a feature and a thing I use a lot and it's open source.
I know I can just submit a PR and that's basically all my contributions open source have just
been thing I use, doesn't do thing I needed to do.
I'm going to make it do that thing.
Does that make me like, do you guys all just like look down on people like me?
Are you even aware that I exist that you're describing?
I actually find very annoying like the, the side of open source where it's like everything
must be free, having a business model run a project is evil like, I think that's such
a misguided way to look at open source.
I think the upside of open source is just from like, if I'm starting a business and
it happens like SST right, why are we open source?
Because we need to integrate with a million things and we just do not have the time to
like do, to make what, to make something like SST successful, like it needs to work with
every front end framework needs to work with like all these libraries we want to use.
We just do not have the time to go and big into all those details.
We rely on the community.
So selfishly, we want more people helping us achieve what we want to achieve.
That's primarily so foundation in our open source.
Why are we making our console open source?
It doesn't have to be like our paid products and have to be open source.
I think that's just going to be me and the team working on it.
We're not really going to get a lot of contributors there.
But I don't see any downside of it being open source.
And the point of that console is to make a bunch of money like it just straight up like
we're trying, we're here, we're not doing this altruistic thing out of the goodness of
our hearts.
Like we see the potential to make a bunch of money doing this.
And there's a side of open source that's just like, that's innately bad.
Like if you're monetizing your open source project, that's bad.
But like there's so many creative ways to do that where the incentives are so long.
Like SST is still going to be massively open source.
Every feature we can shove in there that in an open source way, we're going to do it.
There's just some things we can't do in like a non hosted way.
So we're going to do that for you.
And that's going to make us money.
It's going to sustain the whole thing.
It's self sustainable.
We're not relying on donations, we're not relying on asking people to donate or like
guilty them into donating.
I think there's some projects where you have to do that because there is no business model
around it.
But there's so many business models that are possible with an open source project.
And I think when people start to look at it as, no, making money is bad.
They like lock themselves out of like even thinking about those opportunities and those
opportunities are good because they make your thing way more resilient and way more sustainable.
If we have a business with thousands of users paying us and that's what's sustaining the
project, that's way less brittle than like three giant corporate sponsors like sponsoring
your thing where like, okay, I guess what the economy goes down.
One of them decides to pull out and that's only your budget is broken.
Right?
Yeah.
I mean, we've all like used something and open source relied on it even heavily.
And then it lost the ability to maintain itself.
Like it lost funding or it never really had it.
And the people who were maintaining it just had other things to do.
Like there's such a, like you said, alignment of incentives when an open source project
is healthy and making money.
Where does it come from?
Do you understand?
Maybe you could help me understand the sort of zealots that don't think you should make
money with software.
Could you could you like tell me what your DAX brain has figured out about that?
Like what is the like explanation, like the good argument for that?
I mean, this like goes super deep for me because I think this sentiment of like making money
is about to get into like capitalism and stuff.
Is that what we're going to get into like religion?
We're going to get into like all kinds of things here, but I mean, just do it.
I don't know how deep I want to go, but ultimately there is a culture in certain parts of the
world where adding money is evil or like aspiring to like make money is like innately bad.
Because it's, you know, it's like just something that just historically for thousands of years,
like there's just been certain morals around like anyone that is has money is bad or like
they got it in a bad way.
They did it by stealing from others.
I think it's kind of a reflexive gut thing when people see that money is entering an open
source project that it must be automatically bad.
That's not to say there aren't some models that are broken where the incentives are actually
bad when money enters in.
But the point I want to make is that it's not automatically bad.
There are models where everyone wins.
You create value for everyone.
You capture 10% of that value.
That's enough to, you know, to stand yourself.
Yeah.
So to me, I haven't really seen a good argument against it.
Like in specific cases, yes, like, you know, there are some cases where it's not really
meant to be an open source project is kind of like an open source trap where you start
to use it.
And then there's like you kind of forced along some kind of funnel where you actually can't
use it without in practice that playing someone, right?
Yeah.
That's not a great setup.
The way SST looks at it is we try to make it fully like if you don't want to use our
paid stuff, you don't have to.
Our goal is to make the paid stuff so great that you like want to use it and you don't
have to use it.
But like, you know, if 5% of our users use it, that's all we need.
And that's I think that's a great online model.
And I don't really see a great argument against doing something like that.
Like I said, most arguments I've seen have just been reflexive that if you're not doing
this for a purely selfless reason, it's bad.
And I just don't like that.
I think the best systems in the world are where people are acting selfishly, but the
way it's set up, even though everyone's acting selfishly, everyone still wins.
I think that's a good, beautiful thing.
Yeah.
This just keeps coming up just in the last few days for me and my brain like the idea
that like no intentions can be completely pure.
And I think the more we're just honest with that and we just accept that our intentions
are largely selfish or at least partially selfish.
And the more upfront about that we are, I think that's the best we can do in terms of
being honest with ourselves and with everyone else.
I think you get into trouble when you start trying to pretend or start trying to convince
people that all of your motives are pure, your intentions are good.
It's all just so complicated.
Yeah.
And I've always loved this.
I like talking.
This makes fun of me because I think I'm obsessed with this like everyone's selfish,
but it's still a great concept.
Like I just find it so fascinating and I bring this up with open source a lot because I
think a lot of open source maintain, not a lot, but some open source maintainers do try
to make themselves seem like I'm this person that is just like sacrificing my body so that
the rest of you can like do your thing and I'm getting no benefit and I'm just killing
myself for no reason.
And I like, I hate that because one, it's not true.
And two, it's okay.
That is not true, right?
If you have a successful open source project, maybe it doesn't make you money.
Maybe you can't find a good business model around it, but you, you have like thousands
of people using your thing that know who you are that respect you, your status elevates
your influence elevates that indirectly helps you with your career in so many ways.
And you can see you've seen this, especially recently where, you know, take look at some
open source people that have been successful and look at where their career has gone, right?
You look at someone like Rich Harris, where he's made this massively successful project
that he just did on his side.
I don't think he really had much funding for it.
I think he just, it's a bit of like founding a company in a lot of ways.
Yeah.
And his exit was that Versailles gets to hire him.
I'm sure they're going to pay, they're paying him a really nice salary to continue to do
literally what he loves every single day and work with people that he loves and work with
the community.
He's built every single day and he gets to do that full time and that's like an, that's
actually going to exit right, so the equivalent of an exit for in the open source world.
So that's awesome for him and I'm really happy for him and like didn't have to be this like
purely selfless thing.
Like he's helped so many people like do so many things and he got to win as well personally.
Like that's, that's like awesome and we should, we should be really happy about that.
Yeah.
No, that sounds great.
I've never had those dreams of like just being an open source maintainer.
But I know that there's something for everybody like, I mean, it seems to be working for you.
You seem to enjoy it.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm a little bit different than him because I'm also here because I just see
an opportunity to make a bunch of money.
Like that's why I'm doing open source and the side effects of like, you know, being able
to have more influence.
Like those are all great for my career as well.
I don't feel the need to pretend like it's anything else.
And no, I know most people don't care that that's, that's why I'm doing things.
They're just happy about it.
I'd also like to hear your way of getting into it and like what you did and then kind
of how it impacted you and yeah, so I started, I mean, my first open source contribution was
to the CDK, I think, and it was that I was working with a Python shop and there was like,
we were using the CDK.
We were using it in Python and there wasn't an easy way to bundle up Python Lambda functions.
So there was like, no JS function was a construct that'll bundle like your, your thing up.
You don't have to think about it.
You just write the code and it just ships it.
There wasn't an equivalent for Python.
So I made a Python function construct, which was basically just like copying the no just
one, but doing Python things, pimp installing dependencies and all that stuff.
That was my first contribution.
I had gotten, I think I did what you said actually in retrospect, like I was kind of plugged
into the CDK community because I was using it so much.
I was in the, I don't remember if it's Slack or Discord, wherever, I was kind of in that
community.
I was seeing a lot of the GitHub activity just because like, I wanted to know when there
were some new feature or something new that we could take advantage of in the CDK.
So before I ever contributed, I was definitely doing that.
I was kind of like active member.
And then at some point needed something and put out a PR for it, learned a lot just about
like the process of working with maintainers and kind of like, especially how AWS is open
source and like, there's actually a team that's meeting every day and talking about
their stuff behind the veil and then you get little inklings of it out.
I know that's not necessarily doesn't apply everywhere with open source, but for an AWS
project, that was my first.
And then I think from there, it was kind of like cool to see it merged.
I remember the day, I can remember like being so excited when they merged it, telling my
wife about it.
She's like, okay, cool.
That's awesome.
What are these words?
And then from there, I think I did other things like that.
Like I was using turbo repo pretty early with turbo repo and it was like, I had played
with Go in my career, didn't have a lot of experience with it and kind of wanted a reason
to like do more Go stuff just to see what's this like.
And there was something it didn't do for CDK projects.
So it kind of like started with CDK that led into other projects I'm using.
They didn't work well together.
So I shipped a PR the turbo repo to make it cash CDK stuff better and just kind of like
down the line, it was like every time I ran into new things on any given project where
I was fitting together technologies that maybe a lot, a lot of people were fitting together.
So I had kind of a weird use case, open source made it possible to go in and contribute to
those projects and make it possible to do what I wanted to do.
So that's I think that's the biggest thing is just kind of like being off the beaten
path in terms of my stack in terms of things that interest me, this intersection of web
development and AWS, that really kind of like led me down a very pragmatic open source journey
if that makes sense.
Yeah.
And it sounds like in those situations you brought up, it is similar to what I was saying
earlier where you got in these into these projects, maybe a little bit earlier than when
they were maybe massive as they are now, and that's where all the opportunities to like
easily contribute show up, right?
Yeah.
I mean, the CDK is as a project, like anybody could go contribute to CDK because there's
just so much service area and like, if you know what the CDK is, it's like trying to
kind of like cover all of AWS.
So that's a huge great because it just focuses on like the 2% that you really need.
The CDK is like a wrap around cloud formation.
So there's just infinite work in that repo.
Like if you're in the AWS stuff and you need a repo to look at, there you go.
I don't know.
Does SST take contribution time?
Do you guys like actually have much community stuff?
No, we have a lot actually.
So there was a while where we just weren't accepting many contributions because our like
we as we discovered what we were building, there was just a lot of cruft and having people
contribute to areas that we know we were going to blow away just didn't really make
sense.
But as of 2.0, one of the biggest things I was excited about was we like restructured
everything.
And we were like, we're not super willing to take contributions.
And people contribute like the craziest things like they'll have gone so deep on something
and figured out something that would have taken me a whole day.
And I look at them like, this is incredible.
Like we are a team of three people.
And we literally could have never shipped this thing otherwise.
And it's a big reason why I think open source is great because you get like the super powers
for your company.
We have to be a much larger company, the ship is as much as we do now with the community's
help.
All right, you do the intro Adam.
Okay, fine.
Yeah, I tried to let you do it.
You did a terrible job.
So I'm going to do it.
So Dax, we have teach here, teach is huge in the open source community.
He's one of the core maintainers of Neil Vim and just happened to bump into him while
we're recording.
Like teach could come on and tell his story.
So teach, tell us more about how you got in open source.
Yeah, so it's kind of funny because it's a little bit similar to some of the stuff Dax
was saying I was in school at the time in college.
I didn't start programming till after like my sophomore year of college.
So I didn't, I didn't ever think I was going to write code.
And then I fell in love with writing code after I took one, took class at school.
So then during one of my internships during school, there was a guy there that I liked
a lot who was a big fan of VIM.
And I was like, I don't know anything about, like I didn't even know other texts that are
like editors existed.
Like all ideas is like a clips in our lab for computer science.
Like I had nobody in my life who knew programming.
I had no programming heroes.
I had no programming concepts.
I just like literally had taken, you know, two semesters worth of programming stuff, right.
So I got to know there was a big war between E-Max and them, none of that stuff.
But so he was really cool.
He was really productive, really great worker, loved working with him.
And so I was like, well, I want to kind of be like this guy, right?
So he used him.
So I was like, well, let's give it a go.
I don't know.
But at the time, Neil, then was just coming out.
And what I thought was super cool about that was that you could write plugins in Python.
And I was like, oh, my goodness, you can like write code, do stuff in your editor.
My mind was just blown, right, because like up until this time, you know, I just use like
a clips, right?
And everyone just hated it.
You're just like, well, just editors suck.
You'll never be happy.
It's just like the thing that happens.
And so then I get exposed to this kind of like, dude, I could just write Python.
I can like script stuff in my editor.
This is incredible.
So I started playing with it.
And then it was really funny.
We were so me and the other intern were downstairs like we had two buildings and like the other
one was we always call it the annex because it was like we just had the basement of the
building at this consulting firm.
So like we were down in the annex and we were just writing our VIMs a little, you know,
it was one time to do this.
And I wanted to do like, I wanted to put a status line thing in the middle of my status
line.
I just, I just like, you couldn't do it at the time.
The split for status line, where you could just have one and it just split it between
left and right side.
And so I was like, wow, I want to put something in the middle.
It seems kind of weird.
You can't do that.
Like literally, literally that was my whole thought process.
I didn't even know what pull requests were.
I didn't even really understand Git.
Like we, I don't even know.
We might have even been using for some of our projects at work.
We used like Mercurial and stuff because we were like a real full stack shop.
By that, I mean, we made hardware and firmware.
We made the stacks that ran for our customers, right?
And so we had to like check in binaries all the time, right?
Because you're like literally checking in firmware.
So anyways, so I like didn't even know Git or anything.
I just like go to this GitHub place.
I don't know what GitHub is.
I don't literally don't know anything.
There's like an issue about this and I'm like, that sounds cool.
And then I just like started, just started like right in some code.
I don't even know how I get cloned it.
I think I like probably copy and pasted eight different things to get it get cloned.
I don't know what's happening, you know?
Download the zip.
Yeah, like I don't think I downloaded the zip.
Because I think if I would have downloaded that, I would have been like, I don't know
how to get it from a zip to unzipped on Linux.
I don't know what I'm supposed to do next.
And so, you know, I make this PR, I can send a link later, but like I just had a good experience
there.
There were a lot of people in the Neovim community that were being like super helpful.
And I learned a ton of, like I learned more in that one PR and then like a lot of, you
know, other classes combined, you know, the classes provided the baseline that I needed
to do that PR.
But like doing that, you know, and they taught me about testing and like, I didn't know
what get rebased where I actually couldn't merge my PR at the time, like it didn't allow
maintainers to just like commit to a PR, right?
So like, I didn't know how to squash it or anything, like, and I had like a hundred commits,
you know, because I don't know what I'm doing.
So Justin was like, Justin's the maintainer of Neovim and he's like, it's okay, you know,
we'll sort it out.
And he like takes the, takes the PR and like goes and does whatever it took at the time
of, you know, I don't know.
He just cherry picked it, I'm sure, and then squashed it and then like push.
But it got merged.
And that was the first time that I did anything with open source stuff.
So there wasn't any like philosophical, you know, sort of everything should be free and
open kind of thing to start with.
I just literally didn't even think about anything.
You know what I mean?
You're just like, I just want to have my status line look this way and I can't.
So God, just write some code.
I think I can do this.
And then, and then it happened.
And then it got merged.
And it's there.
So you can use it today.
Yeah.
Your whole career then has mostly been an open source.
Like you, it was the beginning is what it sounds like, very beginning of your career.
Yeah.
Well, so like, so then I, I worked at a place where we used some open source tools and
we contributed some things back a little bit when I was at that consulting place.
And then I went to work for Epic, their medical health records company and we didn't do anything
to open source.
And that was fine.
Like I just didn't like working at a big company mostly.
Were you at there?
Were you at their campus?
And I feel where it is.
Yeah.
So I moved to Wisconsin for a little while.
They get a lot of sort of like unnecessary hate just because they use old old tech and
stuff like that.
But it's a, I don't know, I thought it was fine.
And they're mission like of companies, they're trying to make software that like helps people
get better.
I don't know.
It seems pretty.
It seems pretty good.
Like all the, all the people who's like, oh, you know, I work at meta.
My goal is to make sure that you hate your life and keep scrolling here.
I'm like, wow, I'm glad you use react.
But maybe you guys should like do something good instead of the world.
But I don't know this is so, so I'm the one that gets flamed, you know, because we use
weird languages, but it seemed like Epic was trying to do some good things.
You should probably clarify that it's Epic, the EMR company.
Yeah.
Not the game company.
So, so then I moved when we moved back, I worked for a different place and like started to
transition back into getting more like in, into doing open source stuff.
And I was contributing a lot more than any of them.
Like at that time, and then now I work for source graph and we're an open source company.
So, but I'm not like, like I said, I'm not like philosophically opposed to closed source.
I think that a lot of times like it's not super worth it, but it also, I can understand
there's, there's also a lot of things that are easier when like it's not open source.
Like you can just break stuff whenever you feel like, or oops, I committed a key or there's
like a lot of stuff that, that you don't have some problems with that you do when things
are open source.
Yeah.
I was going to ask if you like being so immersed, you're the person I know that's the most
end open source.
Like, did you start to develop that philosophical view?
I kind of know we started eating plants for like health reasons, moved away from any animal.
And then like eventually it's like, oh, animal welfare, we care about that stuff now.
Like I wondered if like it kind of grew on you or where you're at.
I mean, I've like definitely had some like politics and things change from when I was
like in college till now I would say, but a lot of the stuff around that, like I just
think people should, I think people should be able to write code however they want that
includes like they should be allowed to write code open or like closed source.
And if other people want to run closed source code, then that's totally fine.
But I do think like there's a lot of benefits from having code open source.
So I think like on a practical or like Dax, you mentioned that lots of times that you
can make systems where people act in their own best interest and it's still in the interest
of others.
Like I think open source is a lot of can be like that in a lot of ways.
Yeah, with that news, I mean, we're, we're kind of like trying to start thinking about
doing things open and opening up repos and I think like we realized we never had a reason
not to.
Kind of like superficial reasons we thought in our mind that it was a bad idea.
I guess on the other side, I wonder though, like who would benefit from looking at some
of these code bases now?
Like they're so gnarly and old that I don't know if anybody's going to learn anything,
but I'm not opposed.
Yeah, I think like people sometimes don't really want to grapple with the fact that open
sourcing something does have a cost, like it's not free, especially if you want to take
that seriously.
If you want to take open sourcing, it's seriously like someone makes an issue and you need
to reply.
Someone's like not necessarily a customer or maybe never will be and like that's going
to be time that you could have been spent building your next feature for customers.
Yeah.
So like that's where like, like I said, like I just don't think things have to be open
source.
Although I do tend to prefer like I prefer liking things that are open source alternatives,
but like I also use like, you know, I have a Gmail, you know what I mean?
Okay, now this is one thing I like about your story is just how random and unintentional
it all was.
Because I think when people look at someone like you or just in general, people that are
like really far down their career, whether it's almost open source or anything else,
they're like, Oh, this person like followed this like perfect planche path to like get
to where they are now.
But so much of things are just random.
You just have to like mess around with something randomly.
Yeah, exactly.
And like it ends up 10 years later, you're in like a crazy place in your life because
of it.
So you just can't plan a lot of these things.
Yeah, a lot of it though does have to do with like you want to be aware of like what
you're feeling and thinking about something.
Right.
So like what I found was that I was enjoying these things.
And so like I was able to introspect what parts of programming I liked or didn't like
and then went for the things that I liked and was passionate about.
And then that was like an intentional aspect of it.
So, you know, there's like a parallel world where I follow them up with emacs and like
become a core contributor of emacs.
And that also would have been fun, I think, like because I think emacs has a lot of the
same principles that any of them does.
But you know, what was important was that I was like analyzing what I felt and was thinking
and then went for those things instead of just like accepting whatever it was that was
happening.
People who were working at Epic who were really happy to just like get some design doc have
to go through eight meetings with that design doc, get all the sign offs, get it approved,
implement said design doc, walk it through the three stages of, you know, environments
and then get it shipped and then wait 16 months for the next release.
And that was like, they were like happy with that, you know, but like not in it.
I'm not saying it's bad.
You know what I'm saying?
It's just like they were happy with that.
They were recognized like earlier on that this isn't fun.
I don't feel like I'm learning the things I want to learn about and stuff like that.
And so then I left, right.
So there's like a big, there is still while like the serendipity is there, you want to
be cognizant of what you feel and what you're interested in doing so that like you can when
you're 10 years later be like, yeah, I am where I wanted to be as much as possible.
You know, life happens and you don't always get to choose.
But yeah, I don't know if any listeners are a little depressed after this episode, like
I am now that I know Teij started programming late in life.
I thought you were, I thought you were into it way earlier.
I was late in life.
Like I was like you in college, but like people watch me program and they don't have, they
don't question that.
It's like, yeah, sure.
He started late.
But they see people like you and they think he's been doing this since he was seven turns
out now.
So it was the end of my sophomore year.
So I went to like a smaller Christian liberal arts college and I was doing mechanical engineering.
But like for engineers, they all have to take some coding courses.
It was like part of my curriculum that I had to take one.
So I took one at the end of my sophomore year.
So I would have been, I don't know what is that like 20.
So I guess maybe next year I'll have been programming for 10 years.
Wow.
Okay.
I hate myself.
Sorry.
This has been good though.
I don't get that a lot.
I don't feel that way.
I don't feel the way I'm feeling right now.
I don't have a lot of feelings, but to each being new to programming.
Yeah.
Okay.
This is special.
You're the first teach.
You're the first person who's come on our show.
Nice.
It's not me or Dax.
First guest.
Very cool.
Well, this has been good.
Teach.
Thank you so much for coming on.
I know people are going to get a lot out of this, this particular episode you sharing
your story.
Yeah.
Open source.
Good.
I think that's takeaway.
Contribute.
Get involved in communities.
Build stuff you want to see.
Play to build something and depending on the project, it's possible to get sort of an outsized
amount of mentorship, which is really nice.
Like if you show a lot of passion and go getting, people are quite willing on a lot
of projects to like respond in kind.
So it can be a very outsized effect on your learning and like your learning speed.
Good stuff.
Cool.
All right.
Yeah.
Bye.
All right.
Thank you.